	Changes made between 0.6.1 and 0.6.2 (2003/03/09).

Rate-limit the "sessions limit reached" log message similarly to the
per-source one; spotted by Michael Tokarev.

Started maintaining this change log due to popular demand, including
information on a few past versions.


	Changes made between 0.6 and 0.6.1 (2003/03/02).

Ensure proper logging of abnormally terminated sessions: distinguish
server failures from external modification to the mailbox by other
instances of popa3d or other MUAs.  Previously, if external mailbox
modification would occur during processing of a RETR command, popa3d
could improperly log a "server failure" (0.6) or even a "premature
disconnect" (older versions).

Added version.c and the -V option to print out version information.


	Changes made between 0.5.9 and 0.6 (2003/02/20).

Corrected the message size reporting bug introduced with 0.4.9.3 and
now reported on popa3d-users by Nuno Teixeira.  The only known POP3
client known to complain about this is fetchmail, and it would get the
mail correctly anyway.


	Changes made between 0.5.1 and 0.5.9 (2002/09/24).

Correctness and interoperability fixes.  This includes a workaround
for an Outlook Express client bug which would show up on body-less
messages.


	Changes made between 0.5 and 0.5.1 (2002/04/17).

Re-worked all of the UIDL calculation, adding support for multi-line
headers and re-considering which headers to use.

Let the local delivery agent help generate unique IDs by setting the
X-Delivery-ID: header.


	Changes made between 0.4 and 0.5 (2001/10/28).

Added PAM support (old-fashioned or via Linux-PAM binary prompts),
choice for fcntl(2) and/or flock(2) locking, qmail-style ~/Mailbox
support, improved logging, optional libwrap support, virtual domain
support hooks.

Parts of the daemon code are now run in a chroot jail (/var/empty).

The inetd vs. standalone mode setting is now run-time configurable.

The GNU MD5 routines have been replaced with own public domain
implementation to relax the license for the entire package (now BSD
and (L)GPL-compatible), solve certain portability issues, and reduce
code size.

Added a popa3d(8) manual page based on the one Camiel Dobbelaar wrote
for OpenBSD.

$Id: Owl/packages/popa3d/popa3d/CHANGES,v 1.1 2003/03/09 22:48:01 solar Exp $
