#!/bin/sh
# These autoconf variables are predefined to harden configure checks for
# security sensitive functions, and to speedup configure checks for
# most popular functions.
export ac_cv_func_alloca=yes
export ac_cv_func_asprintf=yes
export ac_cv_func_atexit=yes
export ac_cv_func_bcopy=yes
export ac_cv_func_dcgettext=yes
export ac_cv_func_fchdir=yes
export ac_cv_func_fchmod=yes
export ac_cv_func_fchown=yes
export ac_cv_func_fork=yes
export ac_cv_func_fseeko=yes
export ac_cv_func_ftruncate=yes
export ac_cv_func_fwprintf=yes
export ac_cv_func_getaddrinfo=yes
export ac_cv_func_getcwd=yes
export ac_cv_func_getegid=yes
export ac_cv_func_geteuid=yes
export ac_cv_func_getgid=yes
export ac_cv_func_gethostname=yes
export ac_cv_func_getline=yes
export ac_cv_func_getopt=yes
export ac_cv_func_getpagesize=yes
export ac_cv_func_getrusage=yes
export ac_cv_func_gettimeofday=yes
export ac_cv_func_getuid=yes
export ac_cv_func_iconv=yes
export ac_cv_func_isascii=yes
export ac_cv_func_iswcntrl=yes
export ac_cv_func_lstat=yes
export ac_cv_func_mbrtowc=yes
export ac_cv_func_mbsinit=yes
export ac_cv_func_memchr=yes
export ac_cv_func_memcmp=yes
export ac_cv_func_memcpy=yes
export ac_cv_func_memmove=yes
export ac_cv_func_mempcpy=yes
export ac_cv_func_memset=yes
export ac_cv_func_mkdtemp=yes
export ac_cv_func_mkstemp=yes
export ac_cv_func_mmap=yes
export ac_cv_func_munmap=yes
export ac_cv_func_pathconf=yes
export ac_cv_func_putenv=yes
export ac_cv_func_raise=yes
export ac_cv_func_readlink=yes
export ac_cv_func_realpath=yes
export ac_cv_func_rename=yes
export ac_cv_func_sbrk=yes
export ac_cv_func_select=yes
export ac_cv_func_setenv=yes
export ac_cv_func_setlocale=yes
export ac_cv_func_sigaction=yes
export ac_cv_func_sigprocmask=yes
export ac_cv_func_sigsetmask=yes
export ac_cv_func_snprintf=yes
export ac_cv_func_stpcpy=yes
export ac_cv_func_strcasecmp=yes
export ac_cv_func_strchr=yes
export ac_cv_func_strdup=yes
export ac_cv_func_strerror=yes
export ac_cv_func_strftime=yes
export ac_cv_func_strlcat=yes
export ac_cv_func_strlcpy=yes
export ac_cv_func_strncasecmp=yes
export ac_cv_func_strncat=yes
export ac_cv_func_strncmp=yes
export ac_cv_func_strncpy=yes
export ac_cv_func_strndup=yes
export ac_cv_func_strnlen=yes
export ac_cv_func_strstr=yes
export ac_cv_func_strtol=yes
export ac_cv_func_strtoul=yes
export ac_cv_func_strtoull=yes
export ac_cv_func_sysconf=yes
export ac_cv_func_tcgetattr=yes
export ac_cv_func_times=yes
export ac_cv_func_tmpfile=yes
export ac_cv_func_tsearch=yes
export ac_cv_func_uname=yes
export ac_cv_func_unsetenv=yes
export ac_cv_func_utime=yes
export ac_cv_func_utimes=yes
export ac_cv_func_vasprintf=yes
export ac_cv_func_vfork=yes
export ac_cv_func_vprintf=yes
export ac_cv_func_vsnprintf=yes
export ac_cv_func_waitpid=yes
export ac_cv_func_wcslen=yes
export ac_cv_func_wcwidth=yes
