These are the instructions for those who would like to setup and
maintain an Owl mirror, official or not.

Currently, we especially need official mirrors in Canada and Japan.

Before you setup a mirror, please e-mail mirrors@owl.openwall.com such
that we have your contact address in case of a technical problem or a
significant change in the setup requirements outlined below.

The known to work way to do Owl mirrors from the primary feed
(ftp.feed.openwall.com) is to use lftp 2.3.8, preferably the Owl
package.  (Later versions of lftp contain a known problem, it's being
dealt with.)

It is important that passive mode FTP is used.  lftp does default to
passive mode, but other mirroring programs may differ.

Create a separate pseudo-user to do the mirroring as, let it update
the proper public FTP area, and setup a cron job like this:

05 6 * * *	umask 022 && cd /home/ftp && /usr/bin/lftp -c 'o ftp.openwall.com && mirror pub -v --delete --exclude Owl &' &> /dev/null
15 6 * * *	umask 022 && cd /home/ftp/pub && /usr/bin/lftp -c 'o ftp.feed.openwall.com/pub/ && mirror Owl -v --delete &' &> /dev/null

Activity will be logged into ~mirror/.lftp/log.  We suggest that you
do nightly updates, trying to ensure it is night time in at least one
of the timezones (of the source or destination).

For FTP server, vsftpd is highly recommended.  Again, it's preferable
that you use the Owl package of vsftpd.  In fact, if you just install
Owl on the box it'd be perfect.

It is preferable that you use the same directory structure as on the
ftp*.*.openwall.com mirrors, then we will be able to assign such a
name to it as well.  This means that you will need to allocate an
IP address for this mirror if you also host other FTP content.

You may advertise the organization hosting the mirror in the one-line
FTP server's greeting, like this:

220 ftp.openwall.com - hosted by DataForce ISP - http://www.openwall.com/DF/

For an official mirror, it's highly desired that the machine doesn't
offer other, potentially dangerous, public services.  (Well, if you
install Owl and use just the services that are a part of Owl, that
would still be fine.)  As an exception, it may host other FTP content.

$Id: Owl/doc/MIRRORING,v 1.1 2002/11/07 04:39:41 solar Exp $
