	John the Ripper credits.

John the Ripper has been developed and is maintained by Solar Designer.

I would like to thank the following people for their direct or indirect
help in making John what it is now:

* Matthew Kwan - for producing and letting everyone use his optimized
DES S-box expressions (found in nonstd.c and sboxes.c):

	http://www.darkside.com.au/bitslice/

* Bruce Ford and Rémi Guyomarch - for producing and permitting the use
of their MMX implementation of Matthew Kwan's S-box expressions (found
in x86-mmx.S).

* Eli Biham - for the great "bitslice" paper:

	http://www.cs.technion.ac.il/~biham/Reports/cs0891.ps.gz

* Roman Rusakov - for his optimization hints which affected early
versions of John.

* Lionel Cons - for making me add Kerberos AFS passwords support,
reporting some bugs, and for many good advices.

* stran9er - for tracking down the section alignment problem with MMX in
the DOS and Win32 ports.

* All the people who have developed freeware crypt(3) implementations -
for various tricks that I combined in my routines.

* Niels Provos and Poul-Henning Kamp - for original Blowfish-based and
MD5-based crypt(3), respectively, that my implementations are compatible
with.

* Alec Muffett - for the original wordlist rules syntax.

* The SOrCErEr - for proving the large charset tables are worth
implementing, and for introducing "-groups" in his cracker.

* Jackal - for the format of john.pot and parts of the user interface.

* Anton Ertl - for "Labels as Values" optimization that I use in
compiler.c:

	http://www.complang.tuwien.ac.at/papers/ertl96diss.ps.gz

* The developers of Cygwin - for Cygwin (at the time called Cygnus
Developer's Kit) that I used for the Win32 port:

	http://www.cygwin.com

* DJ Delorie - for DJGPP that I used for the DOS port:

	http://www.delorie.com/djgpp/

* Charles W Sandmann - for the DPMI server used with DJGPP.


	Author contact information.

John the Ripper homepage is located at:

	http://www.openwall.com/john/

There you will find instructions on joining the john-users mailing list.
You will also be able to browse archives of past discussions.  Please
share your experience with using John the Ripper and ask questions
(preferably advanced ones) on the list.  Be sure to specify an
informative message subject whenever you post to the list (that is,
something better than "question" or "problem").  If you need to provide
a binary file, place it on a private URL and post that, do not attach
the file to your message.

If you need to contact me privately, please e-mail me at the address
below, but most messages should really be directed to the list instead.

Please don't ask questions until you read the FAQ.

-- 
Solar Designer <solar at openwall.com>

$Owl: Owl/packages/john/john/doc/CREDITS,v 1.5 2005/11/16 13:11:14 solar Exp $
